Hey, everyone.
Let's just jump into the show.
I'm excited to get all of our topics today.
Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 439, recorded July 6, 2025.
And I am Brian Otkin.
And I am Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is sponsored by Sentry.
Listen to their spot later in the show.
Thanks, Sentry.
Also connect with us if you'd like to send us items or just say, hey, we are on Bluesky and Mastodon and Michael's even on X still.
So the links to all of us, all of us are in the show notes and at pythonbytes.fm.
And also speaking of pythonbytes.fm, why don't you head on over there and sign up for the mailing list because we will send an email to you.
soon after, hopefully soon after, we release the episode and we send out all the links for everything we cover, plus extra information and some background information. That's really good.
We're pretty proud of the email. So please sign up for that. And if you'd like to watch us live or just watch the video post live, after live, whatever that is, the afterlife.
No,
later on, you can go to pythonbytes.fm/live and there's a link to our YouTube stuff. So that'd be awesome. So thanks. Let's kick it off, Michael.
Let's do it. I want to start by saying thank you. ty, I don't know if it means thank you or not.
TY, the type checker, and also prefix this, Brian, that this is kind of going to be the astral show, just so people are aware.
Yeah.
There's
a couple of topics that we're going to cover.
And this first and second one comes to us from Skylar Casco.
So thank you, Skylar, for sending this in.
We always appreciate when people are like, hey, have you seen this?
Probably no.
Sometimes yes, but probably no.
Everyone knows, not everyone, many people know that the astral folks who make Ruff and uv have released ty, which is a type checker for Python built in Rust.
And much like what Ruff did for linting, ty does for type checking.
I think those are probably the closest analogies of the two.
Yes, you could run previous linters against your code, but it might take 30 seconds.
Whereas with rough, you're like, wait a minute.
I'm back, Brian.
What just happened?
My browser crashed.
I don't know.
Well, I apologize, everyone.
Let me put this back on the screen, and then we will carry on.
All right. What was the last thing you heard me say, Brian?
You know, why don't we
just kick off this section again?
We'll just kick off. Thank you. See, this is, this is how they know this is the real recording.
Yeah.
All right. So I want to talk about ty from the astral folks.
ty is very similar and what it brings to the table is what rough did so you know astral they make uv rough and now ty and rough didn't fundamentally change how we check our code right we had black which honestly kind of did and a bunch of tools that that brought together but the real difference here was that rough makes linting almost instant and it's like when you run ruff you got to double check and make sure it's actually on the director you're like did that you know I just hit enter and it's done but there were 20,000 lines of code like how did this did it actually do anything I'm not sure it did anything but in fact it did and it's very similar with ty but for type checking so we've had type checking type checkers like my pie and so on but they've they really struggled on super large code bases and being faster in general is also really nice right so we've talked about ty before I've actually had Charlie and Carl Meyer on talk Python and we dove into it so if you all want like the super detailed dive you can go check that out but what is the news the news is the documentation for ty is up so people want to check out the docs and learn more about ty they can to docs.astral.sh/ty. And there's even an online playground. And of course, there's a bit of a crossover here in the sense that you can say, uv tool install ty to have astral install ty, just like I do. Or if you just want to simply run it and say uvx, and that'll install it in like a ephemeral virtual environment sort of thing.
But there's also an online playground.
And this is pretty interesting because the online playground here is written in WebAssembly.
So
it's TY
running against your Python code in the browser in WebAssembly.
So that's quite neat as well.
But that's not exactly the news.
The news is the documentation is up.
And along with that, they also have unrelated to ty exactly, but in the documentation from Astral side, migrating from a pip to a uv project.
And it's a walkthrough on how you might go about using uv in its idiomatic way, I guess you would say, right?
For example, like if you use pip, you probably use pip and pip compile to generate requirements like txt and so on, right?
How do you do this kind of stuff using UV?
So people can check that out
as well.
yeah i really like the uh the migrating thing um i actually want to i read through it and if you're not migrating if you're just going to use uv i would not recommend reading this because i actually got confused a little bit i've already moved on but um yeah uh uv all the way so indeed um what am i going to talk about let's see um i am going to talk let's just we have a little bit of news from uh from uv from uh astral
it's the astral show yeah
so um i actually picked this up from from uh oh tim tim tim i'm blanking right now tim hopper sorry tim uh tim hopper and his python developer tooling handbook uh he posted the uv bail the uv build back end is now stable and actually I'm pretty sure I heard about the uv build backend, but I don't remember playing with it.
So I played with it.
So the announcement is that for about a year, uv has had a uv build command.
And it's kind of like an alternative of, what do we have, Hatchling or Flit or something like that.
But now it's one of those build backends for pyproject.toml based projects.
and it's pretty exciting that uv build is here so that's the announcement and it's also that it's stable and also fast so Charlie Marsh posted that he posted that it's 10 to 35 times faster than alternatives so what is he looking at he's looking at comparing uv to hatchling to set up tools and to flip the thing that we don't have an answer on is what is he timing because this is just sort of posting the times for what he calls the backend sync. That is not a command that you can send to hatchling or flit. And you actually hatchling isn't a command line thing. So, I mean, I'm not sure what's going on, but I believe him that it's faster.
So it would be kind of cool to find out what he's measuring anyway, but uv build is now available and that's cool. I'm pretty excited about that. Along those lines, if you're switching kind of along the lines of with that, that Michael brought up, if you're switching to uv and you'd kind of like to know what's so great about all of this, I recommend checking out Hinnick's video series.
So he just released the second part in a uv series. And this one is making Python local workflows fast and boring in 2025. And he's talking about uv workflows. So it's a great video.
I mean, I assume it's a great video. It's 40 minutes long. I haven't actually watched it yet, but I watched the first one. Yeah,
his videos are great. So yeah, check them out.
Indeed. And Brian, our sponsor, also very great. Let me tell you about them. How about that?
That'd be great.
Yeah.
So this episode is brought to you by Sentry.
And I'm a huge fan of Sentry.
I use them with all of our software.
And they've been incredibly valuable for tracking down errors in our web apps and other code that we've run.
I think everything's fine.
You get a notification.
There is an error.
You're like, hmm, I guess that is a problem.
You know, and it doesn't have to be in your code.
It could be something like you've upgraded a dependency and now there's some kind of problem that's occurred.
I've certainly got that notification as well.
And I've learned about users encountering bugs over at Talk Python and for the courses and stuff.
And then I'll reach out to them and say, sorry, I saw you ran into this bug that we fixed and they haven't even contacted me yet.
They're like, okay, awesome, kind of creepy, but amazing.
No, it's good to know, right?
Right away and be able to be on top of things.
So how might you set this up?
well, they've been adding more and more capabilities and features.
So I want to walk everyone really quickly through the idea of setting up monitoring and distributed tracing for a Python web app, which means like across API calls or across the JavaScript front end and the Python back end, you can correlate errors.
So you can see like the whole operation, right?
So let's imagine we have a Flask app with a React front end and we want to make sure there's no errors during the checkout process.
I don't know about you, but anytime money and payments are involved, I get a little extra nervous writing that code. So knowing what's going on, very good. So you start by enabling distributed tracing and error monitoring on your Flask backend and your React frontend.
Super easy, just a few lines of code. Next, you want to add enough context to the frontend and backend actions that you can correlate them into a single request. So add a little bit of information to know what's happening.
You enrich the spans, this is the sentry construct across these calls, with business contacts like a session ID or a user or whatever.
And then you can see the requests live in a dashboard.
So you build a real-time sentry dashboard.
You spin up one using span metrics to track key attributes like cart size, checkout duration, and you have just one pane for performance and error data.
And that's it.
If an error happens, you open the error at Sentry and you get end-to-end request data and error tracebacks to easily spot what's going on both on the JavaScript and the Python side.
So if your app and your customers matter to you, you'll definitely want to set up Sentry like we have. Visit pythonbytes.fm/sentry and use the code pythonbytes, all caps, just one word, That's pythonbytes.fm/century, code pythonbytes.
The link is in your podcast player show notes.
And thank you to Century for supporting the show.
Awesome.
I want to move on to something that is sort of, I guess, maybe nerdy, Boolean expressions.
As if the show wasn't already nerdy.
So we've got Trey Hunter's article, and I kind of love what Trey Hunter's been doing lately.
He's been writing some good stuff.
So refactoring long Boolean expressions.
And there's lots of reasons why I love this article, but we'll just walk through a little bit of it.
First of all, he's introducing people to Morgan's Law, which I love.
Anyway, so here's the idea.
You've got a Boolean expression.
And his example, it's a great, pretty good example, is if you've got like, you've got events and users, you've got sort of a web app sort of a thing going on.
And you want to check to see if a user is verified and the event they're looking at, the date of the event is in the future.
So it's greater than now.
And maybe it's not full.
So maybe you're doing like people signing up for something.
And this is a reasonable Boolean expression.
But how do I, it's not that readable.
So let's, let's try to make it more readable.
And that's, that's what he's looking at.
Here's how to break this up.
And one of the things that I love about this is this seems it's just just sort of basic math.
If you, if by basic math, your math includes Boolean algebra and things like that.
And, but a lot of people come from Python from not from a CS background, which is totally valid, of course.
And but how to manipulate and and an or when I say bullying expression, it's just things, truthy things, true and false things with and an or and things like that.
So he walks through some of the things you could do.
You could you could just split up the line.
So you could just use parentheses around your expression and then you can split the different expressions up on multiple lines.
and then he's also saying you could either do it like this where at the end at the beginning or you could say user verified and and they go to the next line the event date is less than or is greater than now and you go into the next line not full okay so you can put the and in the beginning or the end it's really up to you however i didn't realize that pep8 had made a call on this pep8 It recommends putting things like and and or at the beginning of the line.
And just so it's consistent.
I don't know if it really matters, but I guess I kind of agree that it's a little more readable this way.
So I like that.
The other thing that's kind of neat about this that we will lose a little bit is that Boolean operations and expressions are short-circuited in Python.
So with the ands, that means that all of these expressions have to be true for this to be the entire thing to be true.
So if I get to user verified and that's false, if the user is not verified, I don't evaluate the rest of it.
I just know that this is going to be false that Python does.
And so Python won't run it.
Hold that thought.
It's going to make sense later.
One of the things we can do to make this simpler is to just go ahead and evaluate all of the expressions and assign those to variables like user is verified and then combine those with ands.
That's easier to read.
But if any of these evaluations are lengthy things, we don't want to do this because we lose the short circuiting.
We've evaluated all of the expressions, and then we short circuit just in the ands expression, and we don't get that.
However, Trey says, you still can get this if you throw everything in functions.
So he's got these little is verified, is in future, things like that, naming the expressions into different little functions.
And this is usable.
I don't think this is that readable, though, but that's just me, I think.
he makes it kind of all on one line, so the entire function on one line.
I think that a lot of people, style guides, would kind of hate that.
You know what?
I think it looks really neat, the way he's got it written like this, where it's just one line.
You kind of call the function as the
test.
But here's the thing.
If you run ruff against it, keeping it the astral show, or you
command alt L it
in PyCharm, it's going to wrap it into spaces.
It's just going to keep wrecking it.
So then you've got to wrap that in a no format command, like directive.
And then you're like, okay, maybe it's too much to bridge too far.
But yeah, I get it.
Okay.
Yeah.
So these are cool methods.
And then let's jump through the math part.
the math part is kind of, kind of nice. that, is the, there's, you can distribute knots and oars and stuff. And so if you, if you're thinking that I, either a few things are like a or B is true and I want to make sure that that's not the case, whatever that means, that's the same as not a and not B. So there's these, these distributive properties of and and or um and he shows both uh whether you want neither one to be true or um what never both you want one of them to be true but or neither but not both so those sorts of things are distributed why does this matter it matters because like this he shows an example as a multi-line expression and that is confusing to have a not and then a parentheses of a bunch of stuff.
But if you do not one thing and not another thing and not the third thing, that's actually pretty easy to read, I think.
So this is a cool intro to Morgan's Law for some people when they're breaking things up.
So
anyway.
Yeah, very nice.
This is the kind of stuff I like to geek out on as well.
How many variations or how can you restructure stuff to be so much more readable?
yeah it's good yeah
and um i encourage people to look all the way to the end because you have to you you gotta give it to them that some of this stuff is really hard to understand to glance at but um because like the first one the knots just sort of hidden up at the top but anyway yeah all right i
would also add that you know even though you might evaluate two or three things performance usually is way less important than readability,
maintainability, and so
on.
Yeah, I have to say, even though
there's like one, sorry, maybe there's like one or two functions, but the rest of them, performance doesn't matter. Go ahead, Brian.
Yeah, exactly. Don't prematurely optimize because I have to admit that the example that I sort of poo-pooed on because it doesn't allow you to short circuit of just naming the expressions, I do this all the time for quick things because it's very readable to do this.
Yeah.
And we have profilers that can tell us
if it's
a problem, right?
Yeah.
Usually it's not.
All right.
What
you got for us?
I have just an extra.
I have some extras
to throw
out here.
Oh, wait, no.
I have one more item, don't I?
And then I have an extra.
So my last main item is this thing called FastAPI Machine Learning or ML Skeleton.
So this is speaking to all the data science folks out there that have some kind of data science model or engine or something they want to expose as an API, right?
Maybe you're not a web developer or you're not really writing a lot of API type of things.
So which framework do you choose?
How do you structure it?
And so on.
So this person whose name I honestly don't know is just 8BEC, the number 8BEC, B-E-C, created this thing called FastAPI ML Skeletons.
So what it is it's a template that you can start with and adapt for serving machine learning models in a production ready fast and easy way powered by FastAPI.
But it doesn't exactly have to be machine learning models.
Anything that's sort of data science you can put behind an API I think would fit here.
So it's tested with talks, and it has example code for that.
And super easy to get started.
There's a few-- I'll come back to some few little interesting tips and tricks, but it comes with a sample machine learning model that predicts home prices just to have something to work with.
And
then over here, come through and go over to the API.
And they're pretty well structured, right?
It uses API router and so on instead of jamming it all into just one file like so many of the demos do.
You're like, oh, look, it's only 10 lines of code.
You're like, yeah, but if you keep expanding that way, it's going to be terrible.
It comes with open API documentation by using Pydantic models for all the exchanges.
It's nice and typed and all these things.
So if you're getting-- it's not super new, but if you're getting into it, I ran across this.
And I thought, this is pretty neat.
This will be a real valuable to some folks.
And Brian, I learned something.
Because when it says, how do you start your app?
Well, what you do is you say set dash a, and then you source your env file, which is your environment variable settings.
And then you set plus a.
I'm like, OK, what does that do?
Yeah, what does that do?
Are you familiar with this?
No.
I wasn't even.
I'm like, what in the heck is that?
And that alone might be worth price of entry for this, like learning about this project.
So what set dash A does, it says anything that you basically set as a variable in your environment basically stays set for you, which is pretty cool.
So here, what's the right-- so set dash a turns on the all export option.
Set dash o all export.
From that point, every variable you assign is automatically exported to the environment.
So if you just said set dash a, then foo equals bar, then it's as if you had created a script and sourced it and all that kind of stuff.
So it's a cool way to quickly set some environment variables.
Yeah.
I think that's so getting more and more.
This came up last week of possibly using Dura-in for that as well.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah,
that's more a structured way, right, to do it for sure.
But I'm glad to know how to do it manually.
That's cool.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
If you're creating a little alias or something, right, you could put that at the beginning and just set a bunch of variables or
whatever.
Yeah.
Pretty
sweet.
Anyway, if you're looking for a FastAPI skeleton to get started with, yeah, it could be pretty cool.
All right.
Do you want to do your extras?
I only have one extra.
Sure, me too, because I tried to jump ahead anyway.
Okay, so this one comes to us from Wee Lee, and I'm going to cover this as sort of a gateway to talk about even more stuff.
It's pretty specific, but it's an example of something that's pretty neat.
So keeping with the Astral Show, Ruff has a bunch of rules for how your code should be formatted, right?
And then things you should do, things you shouldn't do, maybe certain things are deprecated, you should stop doing them, right?
Doctor, it hurts when I do this. Okay, well, stop.
But there are things like airflow-specific rules.
So airflow is a workflow engine type of thing.
And if you pass, where is the settings? I guess I don't have it in the docs there, but I have it in the show notes.
So if you pass certain commands to it, such as select Airflow 3, when you run ruff check --fix, it will rewrite old code that was bad into new code automatically having to do with the Airflow framework.
For example, in Airflow 2, you used to say from Airflow.models import DAG.
In Airflow 3, you say from Airflow.sdk import DAG, and similarly for other imports.
So if you were to say that, it will actually rewrite the import statements to use the non-deprecated style.
Cool, right?
Yeah.
Well, if you scroll down a bit, you can see there's similar things for FastAPI.
bringing our two topics together, right? So there are certain things that have changed with the way you work with like response model or annotated or so on. So it'll go through and it'll change all those. So we have a Pydantic. No, no Pydantic. We should have a Pydantic because that one changed and it's used everywhere. But anyway, there's like framework specific stuff that I think is pretty neat in the rough rule set.
So thanks to Weave for sending that in.
And
yeah, if
you do Airflow or FastAPI or other things, you can turn that on to do migration across semi-breaking changes.
And I actually would just encourage people to look through the rough rules because a lot of these things used to be different tools and are different tools.
But Ruff has pulled in rules and checks for lots of different stuff.
It's worth perusing around on a regular basis to see what's around and new to see if maybe you should be checking things a little bit more.
Yeah, they also have NumPy and Pandas rules
and so on.
They're pretty cool.
I just noticed that
there's a pytest section.
I haven't looked through that.
I'd like to see what they've got.
Oh,
very cool.
So one
of the things that's neat is
when you go into these rules and stuff, each one of these, it's not just, oh, here's the rule, but it actually tells you what it does, why you should stop doing it, an example how it's bad, and what it fixes.
So this is actually a really good resource, which I've actually covered the rule set before.
It's like, hey, you should go check this out just to see what is going on with these.
Do it this way, not that way.
But yeah, the framework-specific stuff and pytest-specific stuff is cool.
And that's also one of the reasons why they don't recommend turning everything on, because that's ridiculous.
If
you're not using Airflow,
you don't need to turn on Airflow.
Yeah, exactly.
Things like that.
All right.
I have something completely unrelated to Python that I just wanted to bring up, because I'm going to head to Oregon Country Fair this Friday, and I'm totally excited about it.
Oh, that's awesome.
What is it?
What?
Don't you live
here?
I do.
Oregon Country Fair is a three-day celebration of art, music, and food in Veneta, Oregon, once a year.
And it's been going on since 1969.
They have their own property.
Well, they originally rented it or something, but now they own the property or have for a long time.
So it can't get shut down.
Anyway, it's not a county fair.
It is a country fair.
So it's music, art vendors, food, and all waste-free.
So the only garbage that they take out is stuff that people bring in.
You can throw away your candy bar wrappers if you're there.
But all the food vendors are all doing containers that are biodegradable.
So it's a fun event.
Yeah, very
cool.
I might even check it out.
I missed it last year, and I'm going to go this year.
So some big games.
It's fun.
All right.
That's our extras.
Are you ready for a joke?
I'm ready.
This is a short joke, but I just can't stop giggling about it.
I saw this mic.
Was it on Bluesky?
I don't know.
No, Mastodon.
So somebody named Mike, SCC equals official.
So he said it's based on an idea of somebody else, Daedalus, and pending the release of some kind of official sticker to use, I now have applied a handy reminder label to my keyboard.
What is the label?
Front towards enemy.
That's amazing.
So it's a picture of the keyboard facing away from the developer.
yeah towards the computer
or towards whoever you're talking to or whatever
exactly pm maybe and
if you um if you if you're thinking i've seen that before wherever i seen that front towards enemy that's usually on the front of the claymore mines that are directional minds.
Oh my gosh.
Crazy. I love it.
All right.
That is the show for us today.
Awesome.
Thanks for
being here as always.
Yeah, thanks Brian. And I want to encourage people who are listening, if you're not subscribed to the podcast, subscribe in your podcast player. And if you're watching the YouTube version, be sure to subscribe and like the video.
Helps a lot.